it's so relaxed and so pleasant around
here to actually have to come into a hot
kitchen and cook is a bit of them
imposition upon my time after all is
meant to be a BBC mini break for my
benefit entirely anyway because I've got
to involve you in this all I'm going to
cook you a three-course meal using
typical Perigord ingredients from the
humblest to the most expensive things
available clive with no further ado as
we say in the business come down let's
have a look at what we've got going i'm
going to make a soup out of haricots
blanc we're lucky enough to use fresh
ones that come out of there if you have
to use dried ones leave them soaked in
water overnight for 12 hours also we're
using the humble potato the tomato some
rosemary some speck that's called speck
in England it's it's fat bacon you can
get it from delicatessen under the name
of speck a carrot or lots of carrots
actually some garlic some parsley some
thyme and a bay leaf and lots of water
that's all we need for that except and
come up to me Clive after you've looked
at this very closely this is called an
ashy and no meal in the Perigord is
complete without an ashy it is finely
chopped parsley garlic and the fat bacon
the speck and that's going to go into
the soup had its finishing stages to
enrich it and flavor it bears a
comparison with the stuff called pesto
in Provence
where they have the same kind of thing
made from basilique garlic and olive oil
to thicken their soups enough of the
history lessons over to here to our
dessert now yes this is a dessert the
Paragon is famous for its walnuts hence
walnut oil it's famous for wine vinegar
lettuce you can find anywhere and go to
cheese's and we're simply going to toast
these goats cheeses till they're golden
brown and serve them with a walnut oil
and walnuts salad okay but now the
extravagant bit the naughty bit the bit
that I really like the bit that makes
the BBC cringe which I enjoy very much
indeed Iona cook sweetbreads you know
that's the pancreas of veal with
truffles and foie gras and it's
absolutely delicious Clive back down to
the business and I'll show you where are
you starting on the sweetbreads
themselves I've bought those I've
poached them in in a hot water with salt
I've had them pressed under wait till
they're flat like that and I've taken
away all the nasty membrane that would
be around them so they're already ready
then great expense Billy cotton watch
out this cost nearly four pounds okay
those pieces of truffle there
cost 10 pounds it's fresh goose liver
and it's absolutely brilliant our other
ingredients slightly over here please
bit of butter and a bit of chicken stock
anyway that's enough chat Clive we'll
make our own way to the stove ok see you
over here our very first thing is into
this pan of butter which you've got
slightly melted here's to put our
sweetbreads and we're going to sew to
those gently for a few moments I just
turn them over so they're well coated
now while they're gathering frying speed
you'd like to come and look at the
actual soup that we've been talking
about all those lovely ingredients which
have been simmering away adjusting water
a little salt for about an hour and a
half i stir it round so you can see how
it's looking you see the pieces of
potato the beans the tomato all those
bits and pieces are in there and that's
really wonderful and now I'm going to
put in the Ashi and that simmers now for
perhaps another half an hour before it's
really sweet and you get all the flavors
out of the garlic the passkey and
there's lovely pieces of fat basically
here we're a back into business which
was quite pleasing these are simmering
away nicely I got to turn up the gases
as usual we've borrowed a kitchen I've
never been here before so I'm bound to
fit a little bit what's what's right and
what's wrong don't want least to burn so
I turn them over okay
they similar place sorry they so tea
away gently - they're slightly golden
brown of a low gas keep on those Clive
because well that's happening so this
meal can end up completely at the right
time I'm going to grill my goats cheeses
I've already believe it or not remember
to light the oven and you know what
another niz it's got a grill under here
so they go in and they cook away quite
happily right now these are the very
very expensive little pieces of truffle
which we're just going to put in to
flavor the butter in which the
sweetbreads are cooking okay now you
know in cooking live although it's on
film this is actually live and in real
time I sometimes use some help so if
someone can push a bit toast for me my
foie gras thank you very much indeed
right there with me this is the foie
gras
which we're going to just put there for
the time being I'll turn these over
again now you see they're virtually
cooked absolutely beautiful
take out the truffles and put those on
the top of that sorry this sequence is
going on a bit but very simply it's
essential to choose a couple of renowned
wines taking very great care not to pay
from yourself of course once you've done
that you've finished the sauce
toss Hill a glass of white wine add the
chicken stock into the pan with the
juices bubble furiously for 2 or 3
minutes then whisk in a knob of butter
and strain this fine sauce over the
sweetbreads
yum yum although I say it myself and I
often do say such things
I'm not one for false modesty but you
know that is a dish which you'd pay I
don't know 30 pounds for in any British
restaurant if you could cook it properly
for you cheapskates to mean to buy the
book this is the replay because I've
done it about eight times the
satisfaction of the director okay of the
wall nut oil salad with crispy lettuce
and what we call frise or on deep look
a bit like that that is how glistening
it is it's all been turned in this
lovely walnut oil or nuts on the top
there stay there so let's get for the
third time you don't see any of these
things at home how many times I have to
do this for his benefit buying the
camera there the third time out with the
toasted goat cheeses now you can buy
these in supermarkets around the country
in Britain or if you're one of those
people who have holidays in France bring
them back with you yep I hope that's
gonna be okay for you decide something
mom you sure thank you and me Bon
Appetit okay yes isn't it an attack yes
why not
don't you ever regret having given up
this phenomenally amazing like you used
to have jet-setting around the world
managing director chauffeur driven cars
telephones no no no gold Express card
listen to exaggerate you know I mean
these sort of thing don't they don't
believe me Sony's unless you got a very
very tough job
I mean our other responsible job it was
very interesting you know but whenever
you were moaning you got to do something
for it and it can do too much of a
stress you know I mean this modern life
is so demanding on people I mean here we
have I've got my beehives
hi honey with the Divine's we make our
own one Dorothy she suffers lovely
dishes we receive people we make Jami we
conserve food you do pick the mushroom
pick mushrooms you know it's such a
varied life one thing I'd really like to
know because it's my program this is
your life but my program that's alright
what do you think of the food Thank You
Freddy marvelous myself mmm there's a
long while since I've eaten it also says
I think this dishes is yeah well what I
want is understand how can you manage to
cook
she's of different parts of the world
you know I'm doing so good I mean BC
Brown this is top I mean if you're a
very good very good and cook well how'd
you get on with you know other cooking
in other parts of the world I love you
doing I love cooking I think it's like
car it's like painting it's like music
it's like motor car driving it's racing
it so you just get totally immersed in
it and that's what I live out or is
cooking